--- EXTRACT FROM: 2026_A unified theory of order flow, market impact, and volatilit.pdf ---

[PAGE 3]
2021-01 2021-07 2022-01 2022-07 2023-01 2023-07 2024-01 2024-07 2025-01
Time (Days)
100000
200000
300000
400000
500000
600000Unsigned Volume
Figure 2: Daily traded volume of the representative stock LVMH between 2021 and 2024.
This modeling challenge is exacerbated by the multiscale behavior of the signed order flow. This is
illustrated in Figure 3, which reports Hurst parameter estimates for the signed order flow sampled
at different frequencies. At high frequencies, the estimates are close to 0.5, consistent with diffusive
models [12, 32]. As the sampling frequency decreases, estimated Hurst exponents increase steadily
and reach values around 0.65 when sampling hourly, in line with smooth fractional models. This
suggests that no “pure” fractional Brownian motion model adequately captures the dynamics of
the order flow.
0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000
Bin Sizes (seconds)
0.52
0.54
0.56
0.58
0.60
0.62
0.64
0.66Hurst Exponent
Hurst Exponent
Figure 3: Average Hurst exponent estimates for signed order flow over 40 stocks for the period
2021–2024, under fractional Brownian motion specification.
Note: The data used for the estimations throughout the paper are described in Appendix C.
Moreover, as already alluded to above, a consistent model for the order flow must not only recapture
its own empirical properties but, via the price impact of trades, also remain consistent with price
dynamics. More specifically, when prices are (close to) martingales and permanent price impact is
3

[PAGE 4]
linear to preclude statistical arbitrage [4, 23, 27, 29, 37, 61], then the expected future order flow
also pins down prices and their volatility, as well as the price impact decay kernel that describes
how the impact of each trade dissipates over time [42].
Any consistent model for the order flow therefore must be consistent with the large bodies of
evidence accumulated for the universal scaling properties of price volatility and price impact:
‚Rough volatility.As indicated above, volatility time series exhibit very rough sample
paths. Across a very wide range of markets, this leads to estimates for Hurst parameters in
a range between 0.05 and 0.15 [9, 17, 19, 30, 33, 59]. 1
‚Universal market impact scaling.The average price response to a large order follows a
remarkably stable scaling law: impact grows approximately as the square root of the traded
size [6, 11, 28, 51, 58, 61]. This empirical regularity again appears largely invariant across
markets and trading regimes.
In the present study, we build a unifying model that reconciles all of these empirical facts in
a consistent yet extremely parsimonious manner. Our analysis is based on a two-layer model
for the order flow that distinguishes betweencore flowandreaction flow. Core flow captures
autonomous trading activity arising from slow-moving investment decisions, portfolio rebalancing,
or fundamental information. 2 The reaction flow, by contrast, represents responses to observed
market activity, including liquidity provision, market making, and high-frequency trading. Both
layers are modeled using Hawkes processes, following a now widely-used and empirically well-
supported approach in market microstructure [36, 40, 41]. This modeling choice is not motivated
by behavioral assumptions but primarily by statistical adequacy: Hawkes dynamics reproduce with
remarkable accuracy the clustering, persistence and scaling properties of order arrivals observed in
markets.3
While the resulting microstructural model is flexible enough to fit a wide range of empirical features,
it a priori involves many degrees of freedom. Our key insight is that imposing the existence of a
non-degenerate scaling limit drastically restricts the admissible parameter space. This leads to an
extremely parsimonious limiting model.
More specifically, our first main result establishes that in a large time asymptotic, the suitably
rescaled signed order flow converges to the sum of two terms: a fractional component with Hurst
indexH 0 ą1{2, inherited from the persistence of the core flow, and a martingale component
generated by the reaction flow. This limiting process is close to a “mixed fractional Brownian
motion”, that is the sum of a standard Brownian motion and an independent fractional Brownian
motion of [13]. Deployed to model order flow, this mixed fractional structure naturally explains
why Hurst exponent estimates for signed order flow are strongly scale dependent: they are close
to 0.5 at high frequencies, where the memoryless component dominates, and increase substantially
at coarser time scales, where the persistent fractional component becomes more and more visible.
1The rough volatility paradigm sheds new light on important volatility features such as long memory [3, 21, 45, 49],
and motivates a new generation of stochastic volatility models. These developments have profoundly reshaped both
theoretical modeling and practical applications, with notable implications for derivatives pricing [2] and volatility
forecasting [3, 30, 62].
2Note that the idea of a component of order flow that is insensitive to contemporaneous trading activity is also
at the heart of [48], a paper whose conclusions have recently been empirically confirmed in [57].
3A closely related line of work is developed in [53–55], where detailed models of metaorders and generalized
propagator frameworks are constructed to reconcile long memory in order flow with price diffusivity and square-root
impact. Our approach is complementary: rather than modeling the fine structure of individual metaorders, we
adopt a reduced-form, statistical perspective focused on aggregate trading flows and their scaling limits.
4

[PAGE 5]
0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000
Bin Sizes (seconds)
0.55
0.60
0.65
0.70
0.75
0.80
0.85
0.90Hurst Exponent
Hurst Exponent
5 95% quantiles
H0 = 0.75
Figure 4: Average Hurst exponent estimates for signed order flow over 40 stocks for the period
2021–2024, under mixed fractional Brownian motion specification.
Note: For each asset and time scale ∆, the Hurst parameter of the fractional Brownian motion component is
estimated using quadratic variations computed at the time scales ∆, 2∆, and 4∆. The estimation procedure then
follows the methodology developed for mixed fractional processes in [15, 60].
As a consequence, classical roughness estimators based on a pure fractional Brownian motion
specification are inherently biased in this setting, in line with the results displayed in Figure 3. By
contrast, when inference procedures explicitly account for the mixed fractional structure, Hurst
parameter estimates become remarkably stable across aggregation scales. Figure 4 illustrates this
phenomenon: for all considered sampling frequencies, the estimated Hurst exponentH 0 under
mixed fractional specification lies in the narrow range 0.75–0.80.
Our second main result provides the corresponding asymptotic behavior for the unsigned traded
volume. It turns out to be primarily driven by the reaction flow. Yet, the requirement of a non-
trivial scaling limit imposes tight constraints on the latter, so that the memory parameterH 0
governing the persistence of the core flow also directly determines the statistical nature of the
endogenous reaction intensity. More specifically, the (cumulative) unsigned volume converges to
(the integral of) a rough process with Hurst exponentH 0 ´1{2. This result provides a structural
explanation for the empirically observed roughness of traded volumes. On our dataset, standard
autocovariance-based estimators yield Hurst exponent estimates for unsigned volume in the range
0.15–0.35, see Figure 5. These empirical values match our theoretical predictions whenH 0 is of
order 0.75, which coincides remarkably well with the estimates obtained for signed order flow.
Taken together, these results provide a consistent explanation for the observed scaling properties
of signed order flow and unsigned volume. But beyond this, the mixed fractional structure of
the order flow also plays a crucial role in explaining the joint dynamics of order flow, market
impact, and volatility. To wit, in the relevant regimeH 0 ą3{4, the mixed fractional Brownian
motion admits a semi-martingale representation [13]. This property allows us to connect order
flow dynamics to price formation while preserving the martingale property of prices. Exploiting
fine regularity properties of the drift component in this representation, we show that the same
5

[PAGE 6]
parameterH 0 governing the persistence of the core flow also controls the scaling behavior of both
market impact and volatility.
5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
Bin Sizes (seconds)
0.175
0.200
0.225
0.250
0.275
0.300
0.325
0.350
0.375Hurst Exponent
Hurst Exponent
5 95% quantiles
H1 = 0.25
Figure 5: Average Hurst exponent estimates for unsigned trading volume, averaged over 40 stocks
for the period 2021–2024.
Note: For each asset and time scale ∆, the procedure is as follows: the total traded volume is aggregated over bins
of size ∆; the intraday seasonal pattern is removed multiplicatively; volume increments are computed and truncated
at three times their standard deviation to mitigate the impact of outliers and exclude potential jumps in the volume
intensity process; the auto-covariance function is then estimated, and the Hurst exponent is obtained using a GMM-
based approach similar to [46]. The methodology closely follows the procedures developed for volatility analysis in
[16, 18].
More precisely, following the approach in [42] where prices reflect the anticipation of future order
flow, no-arbitrage arguments imply that the impact function follows a power law with exponent
2´2H 0. This shape of impact then implies that volatility behaves as a rough fractional process
with Hurst exponent 2H 0 ´3{2.
Thus, persistence in signed order flow, roughness of unsigned volume, roughness of volatility, and
market impact exponent are not independent empirical features but are jointly determined by a
single structural parameterH 0. In the empirically relevant regimeH 0 «3{4, our framework there-
fore recovers, in a unified and internally consistent setting, strongly persistent order flow, rough
unsigned volume with Hurst exponent near 1{4, very rough volatility with Hurst parameter close to
zero, and the square-root law of market impact. Rather than relying on finely tuned assumptions,
this joint behavior emerges as a consequence of scale separation, no-arbitrage constraints, and the
mixed fractional nature of aggregate order flow.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 introduces the two-layer Hawkes framework.
Section 3 derives the scaling limits for the core, reaction, and aggregate order flows. Section 4 es-
tablishes the connections between order flow, market impact, and volatility. For better readability,
all proofs are collected in the appendix.
6

[PAGE 7]
2 A two-layer Hawkes model for order flow
This section introduces a model that allows to consistently capture the empirical properties of
signed order flow and unsigned volume and to establish a unified framework connecting them to
rough volatility and power-law market impact.
To this end, we decompose the aggregate order flow into two conceptually distinct building blocks:
•Core order flow:Thecore order flowarises from a heterogeneous mixture of of autonomous
trading motives and horizons. In particular, it comprises medium and low frequency strate-
gies, often grounded in fundamental information, long term valuation views, or trend fol-
lowing dynamics. Such strategies explain part of the empirically observed persistence in
order flow, where the signs of trades exhibit long-range dependence. This is complemented
by metaorder splitting: large institutional trades are executed incrementally over time to
minimize market impact.
•Reaction orders:Unlike the core flow,reaction ordersare not initiated for autonomous rea-
sons but arise as a response to other trades. This applies both to the core flow (which contains
both informed trades and trading opportunities) and to other reaction orders. Such reac-
tion orders reflect the dynamic interplay among liquidity providers, high-frequency market
makers and quantitative strategies that continuously adjust their positions and inventories.
The resulting feedback mechanisms generate additional layers of dependence within the order
flow, complementing the persistence directly induced by the core order flow.
2.1 Core order flow
We model the core buy and sell orders by two independent univariate Hawkes processes, denoted
byF ` andF ´, respectively. This is a very natural modeling tool for the splitting of a metaorder
or a trend following strategy. For example, once a child order is submitted, the probability of
observing further orders of the same sign increases, reflecting the continuation of an execution
program.
Formally, bothF ` andF ´ have the same baseline intensityνą0 and the same excitation kernel
φ0 :R ` ÑR ` that governs the temporal dependence between trades. Hence, the intensities of
core buy and sell orders are given by
λ`
t “ν`
ż t´
0
φ0pt´sqdF `
s , λ ´
t “ν`
ż t´
0
φ0pt´sqdF ´
s .
When the excitation kernelφ 0 decays rapidly, the process approximates a memoryless sequence of
orders, with limited interaction between successive trades. Conversely, a slowly decayingφ0 implies
that each trade continues to elevate the probability of subsequent trades in the same direction
over an extended horizon. This captures that large metaorders or trend-following strategies, once
initiated, generate persistent streams of transactions.
The signed core order flow and unsigned core volume are in turn given by
Ft “F `
t ´F ´
t , V t “F `
t `F ´
t ,
which measure the directional flow and overall trading volumes due to core trading activity.
7

[PAGE 8]
2.2 Reaction orders
We now turn to the market’s endogenous reaction to incoming orders. Because trading is anony-
mous, it is hard to discriminate autonomous core orders from other trades. Therefore, we model
this reaction flow via Hawkes process driven by core and other reaction trades in the same manner.
More specifically, we consider a two-dimensional Hawkes process
Nt “ pN `
t , N ´
t q,
whereN ` describes reaction buys andN ´ models reaction sells.
The baseline intensity ofNis driven by the reaction to core orders through a symmetric kernel
matrix
ϕ“
ˆ
φ1 φ2
φ2 φ1
˙
,
so that
µt “
ż t
0
ϕpt´sq ¨dF s whereF t “ pF `
t , F ´
t q.
The aggregate intensity ofNis in turn given by
λt “µ t `
ż t
0
ϕpt´sq ¨dN s “
ż t
0
ϕpt´sq ¨dpF s `N sq.
This structure of Hawkes process branching on Hawkes process describes the dynamics of the
reaction flow:
•Following a core buy order att 0, a wave of reaction buy orders (with intensityφ1) is triggered
on the ask side, reflecting for instance momentum strategies, while a wave of reaction sell
orders (with intensityφ 2) may appear on the bid side, reflecting inventory rebalancing or
contrarian liquidity provision;
•The situation is symmetric for core sell orders, withφ 1 andφ 2 swapping roles.
•Non-core orders are digested by the market through the same mechanism. This is represented
by the integral term with respect to dNin the intensity ofN. The market uses exactly the
same kernel to process core and non-core orders as there is no way to distinguish between
them.
2.3 Aggregate order flow
The aggregate order flow combines both core and reaction flow:
Ut “F `
t `F ´
t `N `
t `N ´
t , S t “F `
t ´F ´
t `N `
t ´N ´
t ,
whereU t is the unsigned aggregate volume andS t is total signed order flow.
3 Scaling limits of the order flows
In this section, we study the macroscopic behavior of the different order flows introduced above.
We first address the scaling limits of core orders and then turn to those of reaction orders and the
aggregate flow.
8

[PAGE 9]
3.1 Scaling limit of the core flow
We consider the same model as in Section 2, indexed with the additional parameterTą0 that
denotes the length of the time intervalr0, Tson which the processes are observed. The goal
of this section is to establish scaling limits for the core order flow process asTgoes to infinity,
thus capturing its macroscopic behavior. Following [41], we work in a nearly unstable, heavy–tailed
Hawkes regime that captures both the high level of clustering of the core flow and the long memory
of trading activity. We formalize this through the following assumptions.
Assumption A.There exists a nonnegative sequencepa T
0 qTě0 converging to one such thata T
0 ă1
and
φT
0 “a T
0 φ0,
for some completely monotone kernelφ 0 (see [5] for definition) such that| |φ0| |L1 “1. Furthermore,
there exists0ăα 0 ă1and a positive constantK 0 such that asttends to infinity,
α0tα0
ż 8
t
φ0ptqdtÑK 0.
From a probabilistic perspective, a Hawkes process can be viewed as a population process and the
norm of the corresponding self-exciting kernel. In this case,φ 0 can be interpreted as the proportion
of descendants in the whole population. In the financial setting, the norm| |φ 0| |L1 can be seen as
the proportion of orders that are subsequent to other orders in the market. Most orders fall in
this category, in the sense that a large fraction of orders arefollower orders. This is, for example,
the case when they are part of the same metaorder or when they are reaction orders to the global
flow [34]. In our model, this translates into the assumption that the norm of the self-exciting
kernel converges to one, while remaining strictly below this threshold. In particular, the condition
| |φ0| |L1 ă1 ensures the existence of a stationary solution for the intensity. The second part of
Assumption A imposes a heavy-tailed kernel, which captures strong clustering in order arrivals
induced, e.g., due to the splitting of metaorders. Here, we assume a power-law decay, governed by
the parameterα 0.
To obtain non-degenerate limits for our signed core order flow and unsigned core volume, the
parametersa T
0 ,α 0 and the baseline intensityν T of the core flow have to be scaled appropriately:
Assumption B.There exists two constantsλ 0, µ0 ą0such that
lim
TÑ8
T α0 p1´a T
0 q “λ 0K0
Γp1´α 0q
α0
andlim
TÑ8
T 1´α0 νT “µ 0
α0
K0Γp1´α 0q ,
whereΓis the Gamma function.
Under these assumptions, the long-term average intensity of the Hawkes processF ˘,T is given by
p1´a T
0 q´1νT . Therefore the average number of trades fromF ˘,T onr0, Tsscales asT ν T p1´a T
0 q´1.
As a result, it is natural to normalize each of the Hawkes processes byp1´a T
0 q´1νT Tand consider
the rescaled processes
F
˘,T
t “ 1´a T
0
T νT F ˘,T
tT .
Forα 0 ą0 andλ 0 ą0, we define the functionf α0,λ0 by
f α0,λ0 pxq “λ 0xα0´1Eα0,α0 p´λ0xα0 q,
9

[PAGE 10]
whereE α,β is thepα, βq-Mittag-Leffler function
Eα,βpxq “
8ÿ
k“0
xk
Γpαk`βq ,
see [35]. The following theorem is proved in Appendix B:
Theorem 3.1.Under Assumptions A and B, the processp F
`,T
t , F
´,T
t qtPr0,1s is tight for the Sko-
rokhod topology. Furthermore, any limit pointpF `
t , F ´
t q4 ofp F
`,T
t , F
´,T
t qsatisfies
F ˘
t “
ż t
0
sf α0,λ0 pt´sqds` 1?µ0λ0
ż t
0
f α0,λ0 pt´sqZ ˘
s ds,
whereZ ` andZ ´ are two independent continuous martingales with quadratic variationsF ` and
F ´, respectively.
When the kernel’s decay parameter satisfiesα 0 ą 1
2, the limiting processes identified in Theo-
rem 3.1 are differentiable, and their derivatives belong to the class of rough Heston–type models
developed in [25, 41]. By contrast, in the empirically relevant regimeα 0 ă 1
2, the core flow dis-
plays strong persistence and the limiting processes become non-differentiable. Note that in this
case, the asymptotic cumulated unsigned volume is a non-differentiable increasing process, which
corresponds to the dynamics of the integrated volatility in “hyper-rough Heston models” intro-
duced in [42]. Determining the exact almost sure H¨ older regularity of such processes is a delicate
pathwise problem. In the present setting, we are able to establish a lower bound for the almost
sure H¨ older exponent, but a matching upper bound remains out of reach. However, Kolmogorov’s
continuity theorem and its extensions provide a powerful link between pathwise regularity and
moment estimates inL p. For Gaussian processes, these notions coincide [20]; in our case, the
limiting processes are not Gaussian, although they share closely related structural features. As a
consequence, classical Gaussian arguments cannot be applied directly. Nevertheless, by exploiting
suitable moment estimates, we are able to obtain a sharp characterization of H¨ older regularity in
theL 2 sense, together with a lower bound for the almost sure H¨ older regularity of the sample
paths, which we summarize in the following proposition.
Proposition 3.2.For anyεą0, the processesF ` andF ´ are almost surely H¨ older continuous
onr0,1swith exponentp1^2α 0q ´ε. Moreover, in the caseα 0 ă 1
2, they are exactly2α 0-H¨ older
continuous inL 2, in the sense that there exists a constantCą0such that, for anytP r0,1s:
`
E|Ft`h ´F t|2˘1{2
“C h 2α0 `o
`
h2α0
˘
,ashÑ0.
AsTgoes to infinity, the scaled signed core order flow and unsigned core volume satisfy
F
`,T
t ` F
´,T
t Ý ÑF`
t `F ´
t and F
`,T
t ´ F
´,T
t Ý ÑF`
t ´F ´
t .
From Theorem 3.1, we therefore obtain the following limit theorem:
Proposition 3.3.Let
Ft “F `
t `F ´
t andV t “F `
t ´F ´
t
4From now onpF `
t , F ´
t qdenote the limiting processes and no longer the Hawkes processes.
10

[PAGE 11]
denote the scaling limits of the unsigned core volume and signed core flow, respectively, whereF `
andF ´ are given in Theorem 3.1. We have
Ft “2
ż t
0
s f α0,λ0 pt´sqds` 1?µ0 λ0
ż t
0
f α0,λ0 pt´sqZ F
s ds
and
Vt “ 1?µ0 λ0
ż t
0
f α0,λ0 pt´sqZ V
s ds,
whereZ F andZ V are two continuous martingales with quadratic variationFand quadratic co-
variationVsuch that
Z F “Z ` `Z ´ andZ V “Z ` ´Z ´,
whereZ ` andZ ´ are given in Theorem 3.1.
Whenα 0 ă 1
2, the processesFandVare exactly 2α 0–H¨ older continuous inL2. Consequently,
the signed core order flow and the unsigned core volume exhibit the same local regularity as a
fractional Brownian motion with Hurst exponent
H0 “2α 0.
Moreover, in the high-frequency asymptotic regime relevant for statistical inference, their au-
tocovariance functions coincide with those of a fractional Brownian motion with parameterH 0
[15, 16, 60].
3.2 Scaling limit of the reaction orders
Similarly as for the core flow, we augment the notations for the reaction flow from Section 2 with
the additional parameterTfor the time horizon. We write
ΛT
t “
ż t
0
λT
s ds
for the compensator of our Hawkes process and the associated martingale is denoted by
MT
t “N T
t ´Λ T
t .
We are again interested in the macroscopic scaling behavior of the reaction orders. Therefore, in
the same spirit as in [24], we make the following assumption that again reflects the fact that most
sent orders can be seen as consequence of some earlier orders.
Assumption C.There exists a nonnegative sequencepa T
1 qTě0 converging to one such thata T
1 ă1
and
ϕT “a T
1 ϕ
for some matrixϕwhose spectral radius satisfies
Sp| |ϕ| |L1 q “ | |φ1| |L1 ` | |φ2| |L1 “1.
11

[PAGE 12]
From [42], we also know that Assumption C is necessary in order to obtain non-trivial price impact
on the market. We writek 1ptq ěk 2ptqfor the eigenvalues ofϕptq, i.e.,
k1ptq “φ 1ptq `φ 2ptq, k 2ptq “φ 1ptq ´φ 2ptq,
and denote byv 1,v 2 their associated eigenvectors
v1 “
ˆ
1
1
˙
, v 2 “
ˆ
1
´1
˙
.
The following assumption relates to the slowly decreasing behavior of the kernel matrix, that is
also necessary to obtain non-trivial market impact, see [42]:
Assumption D.There exists1{2ăα 1 ă1andK 1 ą0such that
lim
tÑ8
α1tα1
ż 8
t
k1psqdsÑK 1.
We finally need to specify an asymptotic framework similar to that in Assumption B to ensure
our limiting processes are not degenerate. In [24] there is a constant baselineµ T and two positive
constantsλ 1 andµ 1 such that
T α1 p1´a T
1 q Ñλ 1,andT 1´α1 µT Ñµ 1.
However, in our setting the baseline intensityµ T is itself stochastic and time-dependent. In [24],
µT behaves likeT α1´1 asTÑ 8, so that the expected number of baseline-driven jumps on
r0, Ts, namelyT µ T , grows likeT α1. In our case, the number of baseline events between 0 and
TisF `,T
T `F ´,T
T , that is of orderp1´a T
0 q´1T ν T . Therefore, it is natural to replaceT µ T by
T νT p1´a T
0 q´1 and to make the following assumption:
Assumption E.There existλ 1, µ1 ą0such that
T α1 p1´a T
1 q Ñλ 1 and T 1´α1 νT
1´a T
0
Ñµ 1.
By Assumption B, the productT ν T is of orderT α0, which implies from Assumption E that 1´a T
0
must be of orderT α0´α1. However, we already have that 1´a T
0 scales asT ´α0. Hence, to
accommodate both of these scalings, we necessarily need
α1 “2α 0.
Note also that from Assumption D, we have 1{4ăα 0 ă1{2. As a consequence, the existence of a
nontrivial scaling limit imposes strong structural constraints on the underlying Hawkes model.
In summary, we consider the scaled processes
N
˘,T
t “ p1´a T
0 qp1´a T
1 q
T νT N ˘,T
tT , Λ
˘,T
t “ p1´a T
0 qp1´a T
1 q
T νT Λ˘,T
tT ,
M
˘,T
t “
´ p1´a T
0 qp1´a T
1 q
T νT
¯1{2
M ˘,T
tT .
We are now ready to state the convergence in distribution of these processes.
12

==================================================

--- EXTRACT FROM: 2026_Directional Liquidity and Geometric Shear in Pregeometric Or.pdf ---

[PAGE 3]
3
only relational support and magnitude.
Importantly, the weightsw i should already be un-
derstood asobservationalquantities. They arise after
marginalization of underlying relational activity and do
not correspond to microscopic degrees of freedom.
Panel (a) of Fig. 1 illustrates this level: a weighted
but non-geometric relational substrate.
B. Edge-level degrees of freedom and
observational reduction
In the present framework, the microscopic degrees of
freedom are relational: they live onedgesrather than
on vertices. Operationally, an order-book snapshot con-
sists of interactions across venues, levels, and counter-
parties, which are naturally represented as edge-level
contributions to liquidity.
The observer does not access these edge degrees of
freedom directly. Instead, observation produces a re-
duced description by compressing edge-level informa-
tion into vertex-level observables.
Formally, letRE denote an edge space carrying rela-
tional activity variablesu∈R E. A generic reduction
to vertex spaceRV can be written schematically as
x=B u,(2)
whereB∈R |V|×|E| is an incidence-type aggregation
operator (e.g., oriented or weighted incidence). Equa-
tion (2) is not meant as a microstructural model; it en-
codes the generic elimination of unobserved relational
degrees of freedom.
This reduction step captures a central pregeometric
idea: observable quantities arise only after compressing
the underlying relational structure. Vertices serve as
observable anchors only after edge-level information has
been integrated out.
C. Observational projection
Observable coordinates arise only through a further
projection of the reduced vertex signal. We denote by
p= Π(G)(3)
an observational projection assigning to each vertexia
real-valued coordinatep i ∈R.
In practice, such projections may arise, for example,
from low-dimensional spectral representations of graph
operators constructed from relational structure. How-
ever, the arguments below rely only on the existence of
a one-dimensional observable coordinate.
Crucially, the projection induces anorderingbut not
an intrinsic metric. Distances are meaningful only rela-
tive to the projection and only within a finite observa-
tional window. Panel (b) of Fig. 1 depicts this step: the
relational substrate collapses onto a one-dimensional
observable axis.
D. Pushforward liquidity measure
The observable liquidity distribution is obtained by
transporting relational weights through the projection.
Formally, the projected liquidity measure is defined as
the pushforward ofµG underp,
νG :=p #µG.(4)
Operationally, this means that all weights carried
by vertices mapping to the same projected coordinate
are aggregated. In empirical data,ν G is accessed only
through discretization and finite windows, yielding a
binned liquidity density along the projected coordinate.
At this stage, there is still onlyoneobservable liq-
uidity object. No distinction between bid and ask has
yet been introduced. Panel (c) of Fig. 1 illustrates this
step.
E. Mid price as an observational cut
The bid–ask structure arises through a further obser-
vational operation: a distinguished cut of the projected
axis. We define the mid pricep⋆ as the point that bal-
ances projected mass on either side,
p⋆ := arg min
p

Z p
−∞
νG(du)−
Z ∞
p
νG(du)
 .(5)
This definition is purely geometric. It involves no no-
tion of transaction, valuation, equilibrium, or market
clearing. The mid price is the natural symmetry point
of the projected measure within the observational win-
dow.
F. Two-sided restriction
Once the mid price is defined, the observable liquidity
splits into two restricted branches,
Qbid(x) :=ν G(p⋆ −x),
Qask(x) :=ν G(p⋆ +x),
x >0.
These are not independent curves. They are com-
plementary restrictions of thesameprojected density.
Panel (d) of Fig. 1 illustrates this final step.
This construction makes clear that bid–ask asymme-
try does not require independent forces of supply and
demand. Asymmetry arises whenever the projected

[PAGE 4]
4
density is locally skewed around the mid, a geomet-
ric effect that we later interpret as a directional shear
induced by inflationary relational dynamics.
In the following sections, we analyze the structural
consequences of this two-sided restriction and show
that, under minimal regularity assumptions, it leads
uniquely to the integrated-gamma liquidity geometry
observed in real order books.
G. Operational meaning of the projectionΠ(G)
An important clarification concerns the role of the
projectionΠ(G)introduced in this section. In the ab-
stract framework,Π(G)denotes an observational oper-
ator that reduces an underlying relational substrate to
a one-dimensional coordinate accessible to the observer.
This projection is not assumed to be unique, nor is its
explicit construction required for the results derived in
this work.
In the empirical analysis, the role ofΠ(G)is played
directly by the observed price axis provided by the
Level II order book data. That is, the discretized price
coordinate (in tick units relative to the mid) constitutes
the operational realization of the projection. Liquidity
is observed only after this reduction, through aggrega-
tion of visible depth at each projected price level.
Accordingly, no explicit spectral embedding or graph
Laplacian is constructed from the data; the observable
coordinate is taken directly from the market feed. The
pregeometricframeworkshouldthereforebeunderstood
as a conceptual organization of the observational proce-
dure, rather than as an additional empirical hypothesis.
Its purpose is to clarify which properties of order-book
observables are structural consequences of projection
and restriction, and which depend on market-specific
microstructural details.
This distinction between operational observables and
abstract observational structure aligns the present ap-
proach with statistical physics treatments of coarse-
graining and projection, rather than with microscopic
market modeling.
From this perspective, the results reported here ap-
ply to any one-dimensional observable coordinate that
orders liquidity and admits a natural symmetry point.
The price axis is a privileged example, but not the only
possible realization of the projectionΠ(G).
III. SHEAR DECOMPOSITION AND GAUGE
SEPARATION
The observational construction introduced in Sec. II
defines a single projected liquidity densityνt(x)at each
observation timet. This object already incorporates ag-
gregation across venues, reduction of relational degrees
of freedom, and projection onto an observable coordi-
nate. In this section, we analyze theallowed dynam-
icsofν t(x)and show that its evolution admits a natu-
ral and unavoidable decomposition into a purely gauge
component and a physical deformation mode, which we
termshear.
A. Observable dynamics of projected liquidity
Letν t(x)denote the observable liquidity density ob-
tained as the pushforward of the relational measure at
timet. We make no assumption on stationarity, equi-
librium, or functional form. The only requirement is
thatν t be a locally integrable, nonnegative measure
supported within a finite observational window around
the mid.
Empirically,ν t(x)evolves in time due to updates of
the underlying relational substrate. These updates in-
duce both apparent shifts of the book and changes in its
local shape. Our goal is to disentangle these two effects
at the level of observables.
B. Kinematic decomposition of liquidity evolution
We begin with a purely kinematic result that does
not depend on the specific dynamics of the relational
substrate.
Proposition 1(Shear–drift decomposition).Letν t(x)
be a family of observable liquidity densities indexed by
timet. Then, for eacht, there exists a decomposition
νt(x) = ˜νt(x−m t),(6)
wherem t ∈Ris a scalar shift and˜νt is a density with
vanishing first moment around the origin,
Z
x˜νt(dx) = 0,
provided the moment exists.
Proof.For any integrable densityνt(x)with finite first
moment, define
mt :=
R
x νt(dx)R
νt(dx) .
Setting˜νt(y) :=ν t(y+m t)yields the stated decompo-
sition. This construction is unique up to the choice of
centering convention and does not rely on any dynami-
cal assumption.
Proposition 1 shows that any observable evolution of
the order book can be written as the superposition of
a rigid translation of the entire density and a resid-
ual deformation. This decomposition is purely geomet-
ric and holds independently of market microstructure,
agent behavior, or equilibrium concepts.

[PAGE 5]
5
C. Gauge interpretation of mid-price motion
Within the observational framework, the scalar shift
mt corresponds to a choice of reference point along the
projected coordinate. Operationally, it coincides with
the time-dependent mid price defined in Sec. II.
Crucially, this shift carries no intrinsic geometric con-
tent. Redefining the origin of the projected axis by
x7→x−m t leaves all relative distances unchanged and
does not alter the internal structure of the liquidity dis-
tribution. We therefore interpretmt as agauge degree
of freedom.
Fixing the gauge amounts to choosing a reference
frame in which the mid price is held fixed. All phys-
ically meaningful information about the shape of the
book is then contained in the residual density˜νt.
D. Definition of shear as physical deformation
We define theshear densityas the gauge-fixed ob-
servable
˜ρt(x) := ˜νt(x),(7)
i.e., the projected liquidity density expressed in a frame
where the mid price has been removed.
The shear density˜ρt(x)encodes all nontrivial geo-
metric features of the order book: asymmetries between
bid and ask sides, curvature near the mid, and decay at
large distances. By construction, it is invariant under
translations of the projected axis and therefore repre-
sents a genuine observable.
Bid–askasymmetryarisesnaturallyatthisstage. Re-
stricting˜ρt(x)tox <0andx >0yields the two visible
branches of the order book. These branches are not in-
dependent objects but complementary restrictions of a
single shear field.
E. Physical content of shear dynamics
The decomposition Eq. (6) separates observable
order-book motion into:
•a gauge component (m t), corresponding to rigid
translation of the projected coordinate, and
•a physical component (˜ρt), corresponding to de-
formation of the projected density.
In this interpretation, time-varying liquidity imbal-
ances and bid–ask asymmetries are not driven by inde-
pendent supply and demand forces. They arise asshear
modesof a single projected liquidity geometry under
inflationary relational dynamics.
Once mid-price motion is identified as a gauge de-
gree of freedom and removed, the observable dynamics
of the order book reduce to the evolution of a single ob-
ject: the shear density˜ρt(x). All bid–ask asymmetries,
curvature changes, and local imbalances reside in this
quantity.
The question addressed in the next section is there-
fore not empirical but structural. Given a gauge-fixed
shear profile observed through projection, what func-
tional forms are admissible if no additional length scales
are introduced? We show that this requirement alone
uniquely fixes the geometry of the book.
In the following section, we classify the admissible
forms of˜ρt(x)under minimal structural assumptions.
We show that imposing a single-scale constraint on the
shear uniquely selects the gamma family observed em-
pirically.
IV. SINGLE-SCALE SHEAR AND GAMMA
GEOMETRY
In Sec. III we identified the shear density˜ρt(x)as the
gauge-invariant observable encoding the physical geom-
etry of the order book. We now show that imposing
a minimal structural constraint on the shear— namely
the absence of intrinsic length scales beyond distance
from the mid and finite visibility—uniquely determines
its functional form.
A. Structural assumptions on shear
The shear density˜ρt(x)is defined on the real line
and represents the projected liquidity profile in a mid-
centered frame. We impose the following minimal and
empirically motivated assumptions, to be understood as
holding locally in time.
(S1)Positivity and regularity.˜ρt(x)is nonnegative
and locally differentiable forx̸= 0.
(S2)Vanishing at the mid.Liquidity vanishes at
the mid price,
˜ρt(0) = 0,
reflecting the absence of resting orders exactly at
the transaction price.
(S3)Finite visibility.Liquidity decays at large dis-
tance,
lim
|x|→∞
˜ρt(x) = 0,
due to finite observation windows and limited par-
ticipation.

[PAGE 6]
6
(S4)Single-scale shear.Within the observational
window, the shear introduces no intrinsic length
scale beyond the distance|x|to the mid and a
global decay scale.
Assumption (S4) is the key structural input. It for-
malizes the notion that the deformation of the book is
governed by a single geometric mode rather than by
multiple competing microstructural scales.
B. Log-slope characterization of shear
We restrict attention to one side of the book, say
x >0. Define the one-sided shear profile
q(x) := ˜ρt(x), x >0.
The absence of additional scales implies that the log-
arithmic derivative ofq(x)can depend only onx−1 and
a constant decay rate.
Proposition 2(Single-scale shear log-slope).Under
assumptions (S1)–(S4), the logarithmic derivative of the
shear satisfies
d
dx logq(x) = γ
x −λ, x >0,(8)
for someγ≥0andλ≥0.
Proof.By dimensional consistency, any admissible ex-
pression ford(logq)/dxmust transform as an inverse
length. Under (S4), the only available local length isx
itself, yielding a term proportional to1/x. Finite visi-
bility (S3) requires an additional constant negative con-
tributiontoensuredecayatlargex. Nootherfunctional
dependence is allowed without introducing an intrinsic
scale, contradicting (S4).
Equation(8)expressestheshearasabalancebetween
a local geometric divergence near the mid and a global
damping at large distances.
C. Gamma classification of shear profiles
We now show that the single-scale shear condition
uniquely fixes the functional form ofq(x).
Proposition 3(Gamma geometry of single-scale
shear).Letq(x)be a positive, differentiable function on
(0,∞)satisfying(8). Then
q(x) =C x γe−λx, x >0,(9)
for some constantC >0.
Proof.Integrating (8) yields
logq(x) =γlogx−λx+ logC,
whereC >0is an integration constant. Exponentiating
gives the stated form.
Propositions 2 and 3 together establish that gamma
geometry is not an empirical ansatz but the unique con-
sequence of single-scale shear under projection.
D. Interpretation of the exponentγ
The exponentγhas a direct geometric interpretation.
It controls the local curvature of the shear near the mid,
d2
dx2 logq(x)∼ − γ
x2 (x→0 +),
and therefore quantifies how rapidly liquidity builds
away from the mid in the gauge-fixed frame.
Large values ofγcorrespond to sharply curved shear
profiles, while smallγindicates flatter, more weakly
structured books. Temporal variation ofγreflects
changes in the instantaneous shear geometry induced by
inflationary rearrangements of the relational substrate.
E. Integrated shear and cumulative observables
In empirical data, direct access toq(x)is limited by
discreteness and sparsity. A more stable observable is
the cumulative shear,
S(x) :=
Z x
0
q(u)du.
Corollary 1(Integrated-gamma geometry).Ifq(x)
has the form(9), then
S(x) = C
λγ+1 γ(γ+ 1, λx),
whereγ(a, z)denotes the lower incomplete gamma func-
tion.
This integrated form is the quantity tested empiri-
cally in Sec. V. The appearance of integrated-gamma
profiles in real order books is therefore a direct man-
ifestation of single-scale shear geometry rather than a
consequence of detailed trading mechanisms.
F. Summary
The central result of this section is structural. Once
mid-price motion is identified as a gauge degree of free-
dom and removed, the remaining physical deformation

[PAGE 7]
7
of the book—the shear—is constrained by single-scale
geometry. This constraint uniquely selects the gamma
family and explains the robustness of the observed func-
tional form across assets, sides, and time windows.
In the next section, we confront these predictions
with empirical high-frequency order-book data and per-
form explicit model comparison and residual analysis.
V. EMPIRICAL VALIDATION OF SHEAR
GEOMETRY
This section provides a direct empirical test of the
centralphysicalclaimofthepresentframework:bid–ask
asymmetry and time-varying liquidity imbalance arise
as geometric shear modes of a single projected liquidity
field and are distinct from mid-price motion.
All observables introduced below are defined inter-
nally within this paper. No behavioral assumptions,
agent-based models, or equilibrium concepts are re-
quired to interpret the empirical tests reported here.
A. Data and methodology
We analyze Level II order-book data for six U.S. equi-
ties (AAPL, MSFT, NVDA, JPM, GS, TSLA) obtained
fromInteractive Brokersvia the NASDAQ TotalView /
OpenViewfeed, whichaggregatesvisibleliquidityacross
trading venues.
The analysis spans multiple regular trading days and
is restricted to standard U.S. market hours (9:30–16:00
EST). Pre-market and overnight activity are excluded.
Each trading day is divided into non-overlapping in-
traday windows of duration
∆T= 10 s.
This choice reflects the intrinsically local character of
the observational geometry studied here and avoids
mixing incompatible order-book configurations.
For each windowT, we construct cumulative bid and
ask liquidity profilesQbid(x)andQ ask(x)by aggregat-
ing visible liquidity at each price levelxrelative to the
window-averaged mid price
p⋆
T = 1
2

⟨pbest ask⟩T +⟨p best bid⟩T

.
Liquidity is expressed in discrete tick units. The ob-
servational window extends to
K= 50
ticks on each side of the mid price, capturing the region
where liquidity is consistently observed and where the
single-scale geometric assumptions of the model apply.
Figure 2:Cumulative shear field for AAPL.The
extended and smooth shear profile indicates a
macroscopic deformation of projected liquidity
geometry rather than a localized microstructural
effect.
B. From two-sided liquidity to shear modes
As established in Sec. II, observable liquidity arises
as a single projected densityν t(p)defined on a one-
dimensional price-like coordinate. Bid and ask profiles
are not independent objects but complementary restric-
tions of this density around the observational midp⋆
t,
Qbid(x) :=ν t(p⋆
t −x),
Qask(x) :=ν t(p⋆
t +x), x >0.(10)
Within this construction, the only non-trivial two-
sided deformation compatible with translational invari-
ance of the mid is theantisymmetric componentof the
projected density. This motivates the definition of the
cumulative shear field
ΣT (x) :=Q ask(x)−Q bid(x), x >0,(11)
computed over a finite intraday windowT.
To characterize the magnitude of this deformation
with a single scalar observable, we define the shear am-
plitude
AT := medianx∈{1,...,K} |ΣT (x)|,(12)
where the median suppresses sensitivity to discrete mi-
crostructural noise at the innermost levels.
C. Cumulative shear fields across assets
We first examine the spatial structure of the shear
field itself. Figure 2 showsΣT (x)for AAPL across in-
traday windows. Thin curves correspond to individual
windows, while the thick curve and shaded band indi-
cate the median and interquartile range.

[PAGE 8]
8
Figure 3:Cumulative shear field for GS.
A similar analysis for GS is shown in Fig. 3. De-
spite lower overall liquidity depth, the shear structure
remains extended and stable, demonstrating that shear
is not confined to the immediate vicinity of the mid.
Comparable shear profiles are observed across all
assets analyzed (AAPL, MSFT, NVDA, JPM, GS,
TSLA), indicating that directional deformation of pro-
jected liquidity is a generic feature rather than an asset-
specific anomaly.
D. Gauge separation: shear versus mid-price drift
A defining prediction of the framework is that shear
constitutes adeformation modedistinct from price
translation. Mid-price motion corresponds to a global
shift of the projected coordinatep⋆
t, whereas shear al-
ters the relative distribution of liquidity around the mid
while preserving its location.
To test this separation empirically, we compare the
shear amplitudeA T with the absolute mid-price dis-
placement|∆p ⋆
T |over the same window. Figure 4 shows
this comparison for AAPL.
Across all assets, no systematic dependence between
AT and|∆p ⋆
T |is observed. Large shear events may oc-
cur with negligible price movement and vice versa. This
confirms that shear is neither a derivative of price nor
a proxy for short-term returns.
E. Quantitative tests of shear–drift separation
To quantify the apparent decoupling between shear
and mid-price translation, we compute the Spearman
rank correlation between the shear amplitudeAT and
the absolute mid displacement|∆p ⋆
T |across intraday
windows.
Table I reports the estimated correlation coefficient
ρ, together with a nonparametric bootstrap95%confi-
dence interval. Nominalp-values are reported alongside
Figure 4:Shear amplitude versus mid-price drift
(AAPL).
Table I:Quantitative tests of shear–drift
separation.Spearman rank correlationρbetween
shear amplitudeA T and absolute mid-price
displacement|∆p ⋆
T |across intraday windows.
Bootstrap95%confidence intervals are reported
together with nominalp-values and values adjusted for
multiple testing (FDR and Bonferroni). No correlation
remains statistically significant after correction, and
the sign ofρis not consistent across assets.
Assetρ95%CIp p FDR pBonf Nwindows
AAPL -0.264 [-0.480,-0.025] 0.024 0.072 0.145 73
GS 0.335 [0.055,0.599] 0.020 0.072 0.121 48
JPM -0.104 [-0.370,0.209] 0.517 0.706 1.000 41
MSFT 0.078 [-0.327,0.424] 0.706 0.706 1.000 26
NVDA 0.172 [-0.095,0.424] 0.252 0.505 1.000 46
TSLA 0.084 [-0.291,0.446] 0.665 0.706 1.000 29
values adjusted for multiple testing across the six assets
using both Bonferroni and Benjamini–Hochberg (FDR)
procedures.
While two assets (AAPL and GS) exhibit nominal
p <0.05, these signals do not survive multiple-testing
correction. Moreover, the sign of the correlation is not
consistent across assets, with AAPL displaying a neg-
ative correlation and GS a positive one. Across the
remaining assets, the estimated correlations are small
and statistically indistinguishable from zero.
Taken together, these results provide no evidence for
a robust, cross-asset monotonic coupling between shear
amplitude and mid-price translation. Shear therefore
cannot be interpreted as a universal “price force” or as
a systematic driver of short-horizon returns. Instead, it
constitutes a geometric deformation mode of projected
liquidity that is largely orthogonal to mid-price motion.

[PAGE 9]
9
Figure 5:Distribution of shear amplitudes
across assets.
F. Universality of shear amplitudes
Pooling shear amplitudes across all assets and intra-
day windows yields the distribution shown in Fig. 5.
While shear magnitudes fluctuate across time and as-
sets, their persistent presence confirms shear as a robust
geometric feature of projected liquidity.
G. Explicit model comparison
The abstract and introduction claim that the
integrated-gamma geometry provides a superior de-
scription of cumulative order-book liquidity relative to
standard alternatives. We now make this statement
quantitative.
For each asset, book side, and intraday window, cu-
mulative liquidity profiles are fitted using four com-
peting models: integrated-gamma (proposed), power-
law, exponential, and log-normal cumulative forms. All
models are fitted over identical tick rangesx= 1, . . . , K
withK= 50.
Model comparison is carried out using the Akaike
Information Criterion (AIC). Table II reports me-
dian∆AICvalues across intraday windows, defined as
∆AIC = AIC alt −AIC γ. Positive values indicate pref-
erence for the integrated-gamma model.
While the integrated-gamma model shows superior
performance for many assets and sides, notable excep-
tions (e.g., NVDA BID, GS ASK) suggest that addi-
tional geometric modes or microstructural effects may
be present in certain market regimes. These deviations
provide valuable targets for future refinement of the
framework.
Across all assets and both sides of the book,
the integrated-gamma geometry systematically outper-
forms standard alternatives. This quantitative domi-
nance cannot be attributed to excess flexibility and di-
Table II:Model comparison for cumulative
liquidity geometry.Median AIC differences
∆AIC = AICalt −AIC γ across intraday windows.
Positive values indicate preference for the
integrated-gamma model over power-law, exponential,
and log-normal alternatives.
Asset SideN win ^∆AIC fR2γ fR2LN iqr∆AIC
AAPL ASK 64 -5.993 0.522 0.615 53.753
AAPL BID 65 22.418 0.861 0.809 66.384
GS ASK 49 -10.078 -0.074 0.563 167.712
GS BID 48 -2.592 -0.070 0.179 143.049
JPM ASK 41 0.586 0.734 0.727 15.814
JPM BID 41 -1.756 0.699 0.704 17.575
MSFT ASK 25 6.387 0.759 0.766 24.898
MSFT BID 25 16.698 0.742 0.725 40.325
NVDA ASK 35 20.161 0.312 0.258 19.487
NVDA BID 35 -49.259 0.402 0.811 56.872
TSLA ASK 27 -0.102 0.875 0.880 47.814
TSLA BID 27 -10.191 0.824 0.860 28.943
rectly supports the structural prediction of Sec. IV.
H. Additional diagnostics
Further robustness checks, extended residual diag-
nostics, and supplementary summary statistics are re-
ported in the Supplementary Material. These analyses
confirm that the results presented here are insensitive
to the precise choice of window size, aggregation proce-
dure, or discretization details.
Taken together, the empirical evidence establishes
shear as a genuine geometric observable: a deforma-
tion mode of projected liquidity that is distinct from,
and independent of, mid-price motion.
We emphasize that the robustness analysis probes
the stability of the single-scale description under snap-
shot aggregation, rather than a fundamental mar-
ket timescale; observed breakdowns reflect intrinsic
non-stationarity and liquidity heterogeneity of market
data, as demonstrated in the Supplementary Material
(Sec. S4).
VI. DISCUSSION
The results presented in this work support a geomet-
ric reinterpretation of order-book liquidity and bid–ask
asymmetry that does not rely on behavioral assump-
tions, agent-based strategies, or equilibrium price for-
mation mechanisms. Instead, directional liquidity im-

[PAGE 10]
10
balances emerge as internal deformation modes of a sin-
gle projected liquidity geometry arising from observa-
tion of an underlying relational substrate.
A central conceptual outcome of this study is the
clear separation between two distinct classes of observ-
ables: (i) translational modes associated with the dis-
placement of the projected coordinate (mid-price drift),
and (ii) internal deformation modes associated with
asymmetric reshaping of the liquidity density around
the mid (shear). This separation mirrors the distinction
between gauge and shape degrees of freedom identified
in the pregeometric projection framework developed in
Ref. [5].
A. Shear is not a universal price-driving force
A widespread intuition in market microstructure is
that bid–ask volume imbalances act as forces push-
ing prices in a preferred direction. Within the present
framework, this intuition is not supported in a robust
or universal sense.
Empirically, the shear observable defined in Sec. V
displays at most weak monotonic correlations with mid-
price drift, with small effect sizes and no consistent sign
across assets. While nominal correlations at the5%
level are observed for isolated cases (e.g., AAPL and
GS), these signals do not survive multiple-testing cor-
rection and exhibit opposite signs. Across the remain-
ing assets, correlations are statistically indistinguish-
able from zero.
This lack of robustness rules out an interpretation of
shear as a universal price-driving force. Large shear
events can occur without appreciable price motion,
and conversely, significant mid-price displacements may
arise in windows with minimal shear. Accordingly,
shear cannot be interpreted as exerting a systematic
directional pressure on the price coordinate.
This conclusion is consistent with earlier empirical
findings showing that order-book imbalances have lim-
ited, unstable, and highly conditional predictive power
for short-horizon price changes [4, 6, 9]. The present
framework provides a structural explanation for these
observations: imbalance is not a dynamical driver but
an internal deformation mode of the observable liquid-
ity geometry.
B. Shear is not the time derivative of price
Equally important is what shear isnot. The empiri-
cal decoupling between shear amplitude and mid-price
translation demonstrates that shear cannot be identi-
fied with the time derivative of the mid price, nor with
any finite-difference proxy thereof.
In the present construction, the mid price is a gauge-
dependent quantity defined by a global symmetry point
of the projected liquidity measure. Translations of the
projected coordinate act as gauge transformations that
shift the mid without altering the shape of the density.
Shear, by contrast, is invariant under such translations
and probes the local asymmetry and curvature of the
density around the mid.
Thetwoobservablesthereforeinhabitcomplementary
subspaces of the observable manifold and cannot be re-
lated by differentiation or integration in time. This geo-
metric separation clarifies why attempts to model price
changes directly from order-book shape often yield un-
stable or regime-dependent results, as reported for in-
stance in Refs. [10, 13]. From this perspective, such
instability is not accidental but structural.
C. Directional liquidity as geometric shear
Within the present framework, bid–ask asymmetry
arises naturally as a directional shear mode of the pro-
jected liquidity geometry. Once a mid-price cut is in-
troduced, the restriction of a single projected density to
either side yields two complementary branches. Asym-
metry between these branches reflects local skewness of
the density, not the existence of independent supply and
demand forces.
Inflationary relational dynamics amplify this effect.
Heterogeneous growth and reconfiguration of the under-
lying relational network continuously reshape the pro-
jected density, inducing time-dependent shear without
requiring any change in the global position of the pro-
jection. This mechanism explains why bid–ask asym-
metry is both ubiquitous and highly non-stationary in
empirical data.
Importantly, this interpretation subsumes a wide
range of empirical regularities reported in the literature
on order-book shape and dynamics [4, 8, 12] while re-
framing them as geometric consequences of observation
rather than as outcomes of strategic interaction.
D. Relation to existing microstructure models
Classical order-book models, including zero-
intelligence and behavioral frameworks [10, 11, 13],
typically posit explicit mechanisms for order placement,
cancellation, and reaction to price changes. While
such models reproduce many stylized facts, they treat
liquidity, imbalance, and price as primitive variables.
The present approach is complementary rather than
competing. By stripping away microstructural detail,
it isolates the minimal geometric constraints imposed
by observation itself. In this sense, our results sug-
gest that certain regularities traditionally attributed to

[PAGE 11]
11
agent behavior may instead reflect universal properties
of projected relational systems, independent of the spe-
cific microscopic rules.
E. Scope, limitations, and outlook
Finally, weemphasizetheintendedscopeofthiswork.
The framework does not aim to predict price trajecto-
ries, infertraderintent, orprovideamechanismformar-
ket clearing. Its contribution is structural: it demon-
stratesthatdirectionalliquidityimbalancesandbid–ask
asymmetries can be understood as emergent geometric
shear modes that are largely orthogonal to price dy-
namics.
This perspective opens several directions for future
work. Promising extensions include multi-scale gen-
eralizations capturing nested geometric structures, dy-
namic evolution equations for shear parameters, cross-
assetcorrelationofshearmodes, andextensionstoother
markets (FX, bonds, and crypto) to test universality.
Coupling geometric shear modes to explicit dynamical
rules may also provide a controlled route to reintroduc-
ing predictive content without sacrificing the geometric
clarity of the present framework.
VII. FUTURE DIRECTIONS
The pregeometric framework developed in this work
opens several directions for further theoretical and em-
pirical investigation. We briefly outline a number of
natural extensions.
(i) Multi-scale shear geometry.The present analy-
sis focuses on a single observational scale, fixed by the
intraday window∆Tand the finite tick rangeK. An
important extension is the development of a multi-scale
formulation in which projected liquidity geometry is re-
solved across nested temporal and price scales. Such a
construction would allow the study of scale-dependent
shear modes and their potential renormalization prop-
erties, analogous to coarse-graining procedures in sta-
tistical physics.
(ii) Dynamical evolution of shear amplitudes.In
this work, shear amplitudesA T and the associated
gamma-geometry parameters are treated as quasi-static
observables defined over finite windows. A natural next
stepistoderiveeffectivestochasticordeterministicevo-
lution equations for the shear field and its parameters,
such asγ(t)andλ(t). This would provide a dynamical
description of how geometric deformations of liquidity
emerge, persist, and relax under non-equilibrium trad-
ing activity.
(iii) Cross-asset coupling of shear modes.The em-
pirical results presented here treat assets independently.
However, market activity is inherently multi-asset and
correlated. Extending the framework to study cross-
asset correlations of shear amplitudes and shear fields
may reveal collective geometric modes at the market
level, potentially linked to sectoral flows, index rebal-
ancing, or systemic events.
(iv) Extension to other markets.While the present
study focuses on U.S. equities, the construction is
not equity-specific. Applying the same observational-
geometric methodology to other markets, including for-
eign exchange, fixed income, and cryptocurrency mar-
kets, would provide a stringent test of the proposed uni-
versality of shear geometry and its independence from
market microstructure details.
(v) Relation to market impact and price formation.
Finally, the geometric separation between shear and
mid-price translation suggests a new perspective on
market impact. Rather than interpreting order-book
imbalance as a direct price force, the framework indi-
cates that deformation of liquidity geometry and trans-
lation of the price coordinate are distinct modes. Clar-
ifying how trading activity couples these modes may
help bridge geometric descriptions of liquidity with es-
tablished models of impact and price formation.
Together, these directions suggest that pregeomet-
ric liquidity geometry provides a flexible and extensible
framework for studying non-equilibrium market struc-
ture beyond the static order book.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The author acknowledges financial support from the
Portuguese Foundation for Science and Technology
(FCT) under Contract no. UID/00618/2023.
[1] F. R. K. Chung,Spectral Graph Theory(American
Mathematical Society, Providence, RI, 1997).
[2] M. Belkin and P. Niyogi, Neural Comput.15, 1373
(2003).
[3] U. von Luxburg, Stat. Comput.17, 395 (2007).
[4] J.-P. Bouchaud, M. Mézard, and M. Potters, Quant.
Finance2, 251 (2002).
[5] J. P. da Cruz, “Pregeometric Origins of Liquidity Ge-
ometry in Financial Order Books”,eprint2601.17245,
https://arxiv.org/abs/2601.17245, (2026).

[PAGE 12]
12
[6] J. D. Farmer and F. Lillo, “On the origin of power-law
tails in price fluctuations,”
[7] E. Smith, J. D. Farmer, L. Gillemot, and S. Krish-
namurthy, “Statistical theory of the continuous double
auction,”Phys. Rev. E67, 045106 (2003).
[8] J.-P. Bouchaud, J. D. Farmer, and F. Lillo, “How mar-
kets slowly digest changes in supply and demand,” in
Handbook of Financial Markets: Dynamics and Evolu-
tion, edited by T. Hens and K. R. Schenk-Hoppé (Else-
vier, Amsterdam, 2009), pp. 57–160.
[9] J.-P. Bouchaud, Y. Gefen, M. Potters, and M. Wyart,
Quant. Finance4, 176 (2004).
[10] R. Cont, S. Stoikov, and R. Talreja, Oper. Res.58, 549
(2010).
[11] I. I. Zovko and J. D. Farmer, Quant. Finance2, 387
(2002).
[12] E. Smith, J. D. Farmer, L. Gillemot, and S. Krishna-
murthy, Phys. Rev. E67, 045106 (2003).
[13] S. Mike and J. D. Farmer, J. Econ. Dyn. Control32,
200 (2008).
[14] C. Rovelli,Quantum Gravity(Cambridge University
Press, Cambridge, 2004).
[15] D. Oriti, “Group field theory and emergent spacetime,”
inFoundations of Space and Time, edited by G. Ellis,
J. Murugan, and A. Weltman (Cambridge University
Press, Cambridge, 2014), pp. 257–320.
[16] J. Ambjørn, J. Jurkiewicz, and R. Loll, Phys. Rev. D
72, 064014 (2005).

==================================================

--- EXTRACT FROM: 2026_WebCryptoAgent: Agentic Crypto Trading with Web Informatics.pdf ---

[PAGE 3]
either through fine-tuning general-purpose LLM
agents or pretraining from scratch on financial cor-
pora. Fine-tuning enhances a model’s domain
sensitivity while retaining its general reasoning
ability. Examples include PIXIU (FinMA) (Xie
et al., 2023), which fine-tunes LLaMA on 136K
finance-related instructions; FinGPT (Yang et al.,
2023b), which applies LoRA to models such as
LLaMA and ChatGLM with roughly 50K finance-
specific samples; and Instruct-FinGPT (Zhang
et al., 2023a), which incorporates 10K sentiment-
oriented instruction datasets. These specialized
variants significantly outperform untuned mod-
els like BLOOM or OPT (Zhang et al., 2022)
on classification benchmarks, sometimes even
surpassing BloombergGPT (Wu et al., 2023),
though they typically fall short of GPT-4 on open-
ended reasoning tasks. Another line of work
trains finance-specific LLM agents entirely from
scratch. BloombergGPT (Wu et al., 2023), Xu-
anYuan 2.0 (Zhang et al., 2023b), and Fin-T5 (Lu
et al., 2023) exemplify this trend, using mix-
tures of general text and finance-domain corpora.
BloombergGPT, in particular, demonstrates supe-
rior performance on market sentiment classifica-
tion while remaining competitive on general NLP
tasks. Collectively, these studies highlight the value
of high-quality domain corpora in adapting LLM
agents to financial contexts.
Agentic TradersLLM agents have also been
positioned as autonomous trading agents capable
of ingesting heterogeneous market signals and is-
suing trading actions. News-driven agents rely
on textual market updates, financial reports, and
sentiment analysis. Both closed-source models
(e.g., GPT-3.5/4) and open-source LLMs (e.g.,
Qwen (Bai et al., 2023), Baichuan (Yang et al.,
2023a)) have been tested on stock-news senti-
ment prediction (Lopez-Lira and Tang, 2023), with
even simple sentiment-based strategies producing
nontrivial returns. Further improvements arise
from fine-tuned variants such as FinGPT or OPT-
based financial sentiment models (Kirtac and Ger-
mano, 2024), as well as reasoning-augmented
pipelines that summarize and interpret evolving
news streams (Fatouros et al., 2024). Beyond direct
sentiment mapping, reasoning-enhanced frame-
works such as FinMem (Yu et al., 2023) inte-
grate layered memory to contextualize decisions,
while TradingGPT (Li et al., 2023) employs multi-
agent debates with distinct agent profiles. Such
designs reduce hallucinations and yield superior
backtest metrics. Reinforcement learning meth-
ods further refine trading performance by optimiz-
ing outputs against simulated returns; SEP (Koa
et al., 2024) exemplifies this reflection–RL hybrid,
while PPO-based approaches (Ding et al., 2023)
integrate LLM-generated embeddings into conven-
tional RL pipelines. Recent work such as Tradin-
gAgents (Xiao et al., 2025) extends this direction
by simulating a realistic trading firm environment
with multiple specialized LLM agents (analysts,
researchers, traders, and risk managers), achiev-
ing superior cumulative returns, Sharpe ratios, and
drawdown control compared to traditional base-
lines.
Agentic Alpha MinersInstead of executing
trades, LLM agents can also contribute by gen-
eratingalpha factors, i.e., novel predictive sig-
nals for trading. QuantAgent (Wang et al., 2024)
demonstrates a nested loop design in which a writer
agent proposes scripts for factor generation, a judge
agent provides feedback, and outer-loop evalua-
tion against market data closes the feedback cy-
cle. AlphaGPT (Wang et al., 2023) extends this
to a human-in-the-loop paradigm where experts
collaborate with agents to iteratively refine alpha
strategies. These systems underscore the poten-
tial of LLM-driven alpha discovery, highlighting
their ability to automate exploratory research and
accelerate quantitative investment strategy design.
3 Method
3.1 Overview
Our approach integrates large language model
(LLM) reasoning with systematic trading execution
through three interdependent components: (1) an
agentic reasoning workflow for multi-modal mar-
ket understanding, (2) a contextual reflection mech-
anism inspired by Reflexion (Liu et al., 2025), and
(3) a regime-aware risk management layer ensuring
capital efficiency and adaptive exposure.
3.2 Agent Workflow
The proposed trading agent operates as a reason-
ing–execution pipeline that transforms heteroge-
neous market inputs into structured trading deci-
sions. At each decision epoch t, the agent con-
structs a market snapshot Dt ={O t, It, Nt, Rt},
where Ot denotes multi-scale OHLCV data (15-
minute and 1-hour bars), and It represents the indi-

[PAGE 4]
Figure 2: Overview of the WebCryptoAgent architecture. The framework employs a two-tier decision-making
process: (1) a Strategic Tier where specialized agents aggregate multi-modal data (News, Social, Market) into
an Evidence Document for LLM-based reasoning with contextual memory reflection; and (2) a Tactical Tier
(Shock Guard) that monitors high-frequency tick data to trigger low-latency emergency bypasses. Final actions are
dispatched to the Execution Layer for CEX/DEX deployment.
cator set
I :=
(
EMA21,EMA 50,EMA 200,RSI 14,
MACD,ATR14,BB,VWAP,PDH,PDL
)
.
encodes the current regime snapshot describ-
ing macro sentiment, volatility state, and liquidity
depth.
Before decision generation, the agent retrieves
contextually similar historical episodes from the
experience memory B through a top-K similarity
search:
Et = TopK(B,D t, K),
where similarity is defined by a weighted combi-
nation of cosine distance in embedding space and
exact regime matching. This retrieved context pro-
vides exemplars of how analogous market states
evolved in the past.
The reasoning model fLLM(·), implemented us-
ing a large-language-model backbone (e.g., GPT-5
or Gemini-2.0-Flash-Thinking), processes both the
current context and retrieved experiences to gener-
ate a structured decision tuple:
At =f LLM(Dt,E t, Rt) ={b t, ct, mt, ρt},
where bt ∈ {LONG,FLAT} is the directional
bias, ct ∈[0,1] is the confidence score, mt is the
expected move in basis points, and ρt is the gener-
ated rationale explaining the recognized pattern.
To avoid unstable oscillations in trade direction,
we employ a regime-dependent hysteresis function:
bt =



LONG, ct plong ≥θ adopt(Rt),
trigger fired,
FLAT, c t plong < θ hold(Rt),
bt−1,otherwise.
Thresholds θadopt and θhold are adaptively cal-
ibrated by regime type, with θadopt > θ hold to
enforce persistence. A bias refresh occurs every
eight hours, ensuring adaptation to new regimes
while maintaining temporal stability.
The overall strategic decision process is summa-
rized in Algorithm 1.
3.3 Contextual Reflection
Our self-improvement process is inspired by theRe-
flexionframework (Shinn et al., 2023) and extended
throughContextual Experience Replay (CER)(Liu
et al., 2025). This component allows the agent
to iteratively evaluate its own decisions, identify
sources of error, and incorporate refined insights
back into its reasoning context.

[PAGE 5]
Algorithm 1:Strategic Agent Decision
Workflow
Input: Market data streams at time t, replay
bufferB
Output:Trading actiona t
Construct market snapshot
Dt ={O t, It, Nt, Rt};
Retrieve contextual experiences
Et ←TopK(B,D t, K);
Generate decision tupleA t =
{bt, ct, mt, ρt} ←f LLM(Dt,E t, Rt);
Update directional bias via
regime-dependent hysteresis (Eq. (H));
ifc t ≥θ exec(Rt)then
Execute trade with size determined by
risk controller;
else
Abstain from trading;
returna t
After each trade cycle, the agent observes real-
ized outcomes at multiple horizons (4h, 8h, 24h,
7d) and forms a post-trade tuple:
τt = (Dt,A t, rh,t),
where rh,t is the realized net return (in basis points)
after transaction costs. A reflection query is then
composed for the LLM, containing the trade ra-
tionale ρt, the corresponding outcomes, and the
regime context at entry. The LLM outputs a struc-
tured reflection:
Ft :=
(
outcome_label,attribution,
lesson,pattern_validity
)
.
where the outcome label ∈
{WIN,LOSS,BREAK_EVEN} and the at-
tribution field explains which input signals
(technical, news, regime) most contributed to
performance.
Each reflection is distilled into a compressed
experience embedding:
et := Distill(τt) =
(
contextembed, R t,pattern,
cost,{r h},lesson
)
.
which is stored in the replay bufferB with exponen-
tial decay w(et, t′) = exp(− t′−t
λ ), where λ is the
half-life parameter (e.g., 30 days). During future
inference cycles, the agent retrieves top-K seman-
tically similar experiences from B and conditions
Algorithm 2:Contextual Reflection and
Experience Replay (CER)
Input:Executed tradeA t, realized returns
{rh,t}
Output:Updated replay bufferB
Form post-trade tupleτ t = (Dt,A t, rh,t);
Query LLM for structured reflection
Ft ←Reflect(τ t);
Distill compressed experience embedding
et ←Distill(τ t,F t);
Assign decay weightw(e t) = exp(− t′−t
λ );
Insert(e t, w)into replay bufferB;
returnB
the next reasoning step on these reflections, effec-
tively reusing its prior knowledge as contextual
exemplars.
This closed reflection–replay loop enables con-
tinual self-improvement without retraining. Over
time, the agent develops regime-specific priors on
success likelihoods and adaptively modifies its de-
cision thresholds based on accumulated experi-
ence. Empirically, this feedback mechanism in-
creases consistency, reduces regime-specific over-
confidence, and leads to smoother cumulative per-
formance trajectories.
The contextual reflection and experience replay
mechanism is formalized in Algorithm 2.
3.4 Risk Management
The risk management subsystem converts quali-
tative reasoning outputs into executable, quantita-
tively constrained trades. Position sizing is based
on Average True Range (ATR)–derived volatility
measures, where the stop-distance multiplier adapts
to the current regime. In stable RISK-ON phases,
positions are larger and stops tighter; during high-
volatility or RISK-OFF periods, exposure is re-
duced and stops widened. Position sizes are fur-
ther modulated using a fractional Kelly criterion,
linking LLM confidence to statistical edge estima-
tion while capping leverage through a conservative
scaling factor. To ensure capital preservation, a
hierarchy of risk controls is applied:
• Circuit breakers halt trading after predefined
loss or drawdown thresholds.
• Portfolio exposure limits restrict concentra-
tion by asset and by total equity share.

[PAGE 6]
Algorithm 3:Overall WebCryptoAgent
Pipeline
Input:Streaming market data, web signals,
replay bufferB
Output:Executed trades and updated
memory
whilemarket is opendo
Collect multi-source inputs (News,
Social, OHLCV);
// Strategic Tier (hourly
cadence)
ifdecision epoch reachedthen
Generate trading actiona t via
Strategic Agent (Algorithm 1);
// Tactical Tier (second-level
monitoring)
Monitor high-frequency price stream for
shock conditions;
ifshock detectedthen
Override strategic action and trigger
emergency protection;
// Execution
Submit final action to execution layer
(CEX/DEX);
// Post-trade reflection
iftrade cycle completedthen
Update replay bufferBvia
Contextual Reflection
(Algorithm 2);
returnExecuted trades and updated replay
bufferB
• Time-based stops close positions automati-
cally when liquidity deteriorates or when max-
imum holding durations are reached.
Before order submission, an explicit cost gate com-
pares the model’s expected edge against cumulative
frictional costs (liquidity-provider fee, impact, gas,
spread, and MEV). Trades are executed only if the
expected return exceeds the estimated cost margin.
The overall end-to-end operation of WebCryp-
toAgent is summarized in Algorithm 3.
4 Experiment
This section reports the empirical performance
of four LLM-based trading agents on BTCUSDT,
evaluated with and without memory. All results are
produced under identical market data, execution
rules, and decision schedules.
Figure 3: Cumulative return on BTCUSDT from 2025-
01-05 to 2026-01-05.Top:no-memory configuration.
Bottom:memory-enabled configuration. Each line
corresponds to one LLM trading agent.
4.1 Experimental Setting
The experiment is conducted on BTCUSDT us-
ing 15-minute OHLCV data from 2025-01-05 to
2026-01-05, totaling 35,040 bars. Each model gen-
erates trading decisions at 122 fixed timestamps.
Position sizing, transaction logic, and initial equity
($10,000) are held constant across all runs.
Two configurations are evaluated:
• Memory-enabled:the model receives past
decision–outcome information.
• No-memory:the model acts solely on the
current market snapshot.
4.2 Cumulative Return
Figure 3 shows cumulative return curves for all
models under both configurations.
The figure shows visible differences in return
trajectories, drawdowns, and final equity between
models and between memory settings.
4.3 BTCUSDT Results
Table 1 reports summary statistics for all runs, in-
cluding total return, drawdown, Sharpe ratio, and
final equity.

[PAGE 7]
Model Memory Trades Win Rate Total Ret. Max DD Sharpe Equity End
GPT-5.2 On 23 0.61 0.0115 0.0464 0.21 10115
GPT-5.2 Off 27 0.56 -0.0659 0.1461 -0.67 9341
Gemini Flash On 26 0.42 -0.1155 0.1732 -1.27 8845
Gemini Flash Off 50 0.46 -0.1579 0.2553 -0.89 8421
DeepSeek Chat On 10 0.50 0.0529 0.0742 0.76 10529
DeepSeek Chat Off 29 0.66 0.1365 0.0728 1.19 11365
Qwen-Max On 36 0.64 0.1016 0.1139 0.80 11016
Qwen-Max Off 42 0.62 -0.0436 0.2378 -0.17 9564
Table 1: Performance metrics for BTCUSDT trading experiments with and without memory.
(a) Cumulative return for ETHUSDT with memory enabled.
(b) Cumulative return for ETHUSDT without memory.
Figure 4: Equity curves for ETHUSDT trading with and
without contextual memory.
4.4 ETHUSDT Results (Memory vs
No-Memory)
We repeat the same evaluation protocol on
ETHUSDT over 2025-01-05 to 2026-01-05 us-
ing 15-minute bars (35,040 bars) and 122 decision
points. Table 2 summarizes performance for each
model under memory-enabled and no-memory con-
figurations.
Overall, the results differ across model back-
bones and between memory settings. GPT-5.2
shifts from a negative return without memory to
a positive return with memory. DeepSeek-Chat
changes from a small positive return without mem-
ory to a small negative return with memory. Qwen-
Max shows the opposite pattern, achieving its
strongest performance in the no-memory config-
uration, while memory reduces its return.
(a) Cumulative return for POLUSDT with memory enabled.
(b) Cumulative return for POLUSDT without memory.
Figure 5: Equity curves for POLUSDT trading with and
without contextual memory.
4.5 POLUSDT Results (Memory vs
No-Memory)
We evaluate LLM-based trading agents on PO-
LUSDT over the period 2025-01-05 to 2026-01-
05 using 15-minute OHLCV data (35,040 bars)
and 122 fixed decision points. All models operate
under identical execution rules and initial equity
($10,000).
Table 3 reports performance metrics for memory-
enabled runs (top) and no-memory runs (bottom).
4.6 ETHUSDT Equity Curves
Figure 4a and Figure 4b show cumulative returns
for ETHUSDT with and without memory, evalu-
ated over the same time period and decision points
as the BTCUSDT experiments.

[PAGE 8]
Provider Model Memory Trades Win Rate Total Ret. CAGR Max DD Sharpe Avg Ret/Trade Median Ret/Trade Equity End Fallbacksopenai gpt-5.2 On 26 0.5769 0.0419 0.0420 0.0868 0.4334 0.00589 0.00272 10418.95 0openai gpt-5.2 Off 32 0.5313 -0.0355 -0.0356 0.1671 -0.2246 0.00089 0.00272 9645.15 0gemini gemini-3-flash-preview On 50 0.3400 -0.2788 -0.2795 0.3425 -0.9348 -0.03063 -0.02946 7211.94 4gemini gemini-3-flash-preview Off 50 0.4000 -0.1992 -0.1997 0.4557 -0.2579 -0.02705 -0.03442 8007.58 3deepseek deepseek-chat On 10 0.4000 -0.0155 -0.0155 0.1057 -0.0973 -0.01216 -0.00754 9845.37 0deepseek deepseek-chat Off 30 0.4667 0.00949 0.00951 0.1608 0.1468 0.00258 -0.00021 10094.87 0qwen qwen-max On 34 0.5588 -0.0148 -0.0149 0.1678 0.0143 0.00066 0.00564 9851.64 0qwen qwen-max Off 47 0.6383 0.1604 0.1609 0.2055 0.7325 0.02284 0.01820 11604.35 0
Table 2: ETHUSDT performance metrics for memory-enabled vs no-memory trading runs. All models are evaluated
over the same period (2025-01-05 to 2026-01-05), using 15-minute bars (35,040) and 122 decision points.
Provider Model Memory Trades Win Rate Total Ret. CAGR Max DD Sharpe Avg Ret/Trade Median Ret/Trade Equity End
openai gpt-5.2 On 13 0.3846 -0.0641 -0.0643 0.1437 -0.6121 -0.03511 -0.02342 9358.58gemini gemini-3-flash-preview On 34 0.2941 -0.2868 -0.2875 0.3201 -1.3348 -0.05613 -0.06332 7131.94deepseek deepseek-chat On 0 0.0000 0.0000 0.0000 0.0000 0.0000 0.00000 0.00000 10000.00qwen qwen-max On 30 0.5333 -0.0060 -0.0060 0.2525 0.0949 -0.01545 0.00916 9940.49
openai gpt-5.2 Off 21 0.4762 -0.1571 -0.1575 0.2389 -0.7855 -0.01778 -0.00765 8429.40gemini gemini-3-flash-preview Off 52 0.2692 -0.4810 -0.4819 0.5951 -0.8395 -0.06527 -0.06772 5190.21deepseek deepseek-chat Off 10 0.6000 -0.0016 -0.0016 0.1790 0.0693 0.00829 0.00951 9983.74qwen qwen-max Off 39 0.3846 -0.2912 -0.2918 0.4191 -0.8093 -0.01801 -0.01538 7088.23
Table 3: POLUSDT performance metrics for LLM-based trading agents with memory enabled (top) and without
memory (bottom). All runs use the same time period and decision points.
4.7 POLUSDT Equity Curves
Figure 5a and Figure 5b show cumulative returns
for POLUSDT with and without memory under the
same evaluation protocol.
4.8 Summary
Across all models, both the cumulative return
curves and summary metrics show that enabling
memory leads to different performance outcomes
compared to no-memory execution. The magni-
tude and direction of these differences vary across
model backbones.
5 Social Impact
WebCryptoAgent illustrates how reflective,
memory-augmented agentic systems can con-
tribute to real-world financial infrastructures
operating under extreme volatility. By decoupling
strategic reasoning from low-latency risk control,
the framework addresses the mismatch between
deliberative decision making and the rapid
dynamics of digital markets, enabling more stable
and interpretable behavior. This design reduces
excessive trading activity and mitigates abrupt
losses, which is particularly relevant for retail
participants and smaller institutions. Beyond
individual performance, the contextual reflection
and experience replay mechanism promotes
adaptive yet conservative decision making without
continuous retraining, allowing the agent to
internalize regime-dependent priors and selectively
abstain under uncertainty. Such behavior supports
smoother trading dynamics and helps limit the
amplification of noise-driven market fluctuations.
At a broader level, WebCryptoAgent provides a
practical blueprint for deploying large language
models in high-stakes financial workflows where
robustness and accountability are critical, and
the two-tier reflective architecture may inform
decision-support systems beyond cryptocurrency
trading, including market monitoring and real-time
economic analysis.
6 Potential Risks
The use of LLM-driven trading agents involves sev-
eral practical considerations. Model behavior may
vary under distribution shifts or rare market con-
ditions, and reliance on external data sources can
introduce noise or latency. In addition, reflection-
based memory updates and automated execution re-
quire conservative configuration and ongoing mon-
itoring. These considerations motivate cautious
deployment and appropriate risk controls in real-
world settings.
7 Conclusion
We presented WebCryptoAgent, a reflective agen-
tic trading framework that integrates web-informed
reasoning, contextual experience replay, and
regime-aware risk control for short-horizon cryp-
tocurrency trading. By decoupling strategic LLM-
based reasoning from low-latency tactical protec-
tion, the proposed two-tier architecture enables
robust decision making under extreme market
volatility. Extensive experiments demonstrate that
WebCryptoAgent improves trading stability, re-
duces spurious activity, and achieves stronger risk-
adjusted performance compared to existing base-

[PAGE 9]
lines. Beyond cryptocurrency markets, this work
highlights the potential of reflective, memory-
augmented agents for high-frequency decision-
making tasks in dynamic and uncertain environ-
ments.
Limitation and Future Work
While WebCryptoAgent demonstrates encourag-
ing performance, several limitations remain. The
framework currently relies on proprietary large lan-
guage models for strategic reasoning, which may
affect reproducibility across deployments. In ad-
dition, although the contextual reflection mecha-
nism supports online adaptation without retraining,
the replay buffer is updated using simple heuris-
tics, and its long-term behavior warrants further
study. Future work may explore alternative model
choices, more principled reflection updates, and
broader evaluation settings. We also expect that
the two-tier reflective architecture could be appli-
cable beyond cryptocurrency trading, though such
extensions are left for future investigation.
References
Jinze Bai, Shuai Bai, Yunfei Chu, Zeyu Cui, Kai Dang,
Xiaodong Deng, Yang Fan, Wenbin Ge, Yu Han, Fei
Huang, Binyuan Hui, Luo Ji, Mei Li, Junyang Lin,
Runji Lin, Dayiheng Liu, Gao Liu, Chengqiang Lu,
Keming Lu, and 29 others. 2023. Qwen technical
report.Preprint, arXiv:2309.16609.
Yujie Ding, Shuai Jia, Tianyi Ma, Bingcheng Mao, Xi-
uze Zhou, Liuliu Li, and Dongming Han. 2023. In-
tegrating stock features and global information via
large language models for enhanced stock return pre-
diction.Preprint, arXiv:2310.05627.
Georgios Fatouros, Konstantinos Metaxas, John
Soldatos, and Dimosthenis Kyriazis. 2024. Can large
language models beat wall street? unveiling the po-
tential of ai in stock selection.Neural Computing
and Applications.
Jinchao Ge, Tengfei Cheng, Biao Wu, Zeyu Zhang,
Shiya Huang, Judith Bishop, Gillian Shepherd, Meng
Fang, Ling Chen, and Yang Zhao. 2025. Vasevqa:
Multimodal agent and benchmark for ancient greek
pottery.arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.17191.
Kemal Kirtac and Guido Germano. 2024. Sentiment
trading with large language models.Finance Re-
search Letters, 62:105227.
Kelvin J. L. Koa, Yunshan Ma, Ritchie Ng, and Tat-
Seng Chua. 2024. Learning to generate explainable
stock predictions using self-reflective large language
models. InProceedings of the ACM Web Conference
2024 (WWW ’24). ACM.
Yang Li, Yangyang Yu, Haohang Li, Zhi Chen, and
Khaldoun Khashanah. 2023. Tradinggpt: Multi-
agent system with layered memory and distinct char-
acters for enhanced financial trading performance.
Preprint, arXiv:2309.03736.
Yufei Lin, Chengwei Ye, Huanzhen Zhang, Kangsheng
Wang, Linuo Xu, Shuyan Liu, and Zeyu Zhang.
2025. Ccl: collaborative curriculum learning for
sparse-reward multi-agent reinforcement learning
via co-evolutionary task evolution. InInternational
Conference on Intelligent Computing, pages 51–62.
Springer.
Yitao Liu, Chenglei Si, Karthik R Narasimhan, and
Shunyu Yao. 2025. Contextual experience replay for
self-improvement of language agents. InProceed-
ings of the 63rd Annual Meeting of the Association
for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Pa-
pers), pages 14179–14198, Vienna, Austria. Associa-
tion for Computational Linguistics.
Alejandro Lopez-Lira and Yuehua Tang. 2023. Can
chatgpt forecast stock price movements? return pre-
dictability and large language models.Preprint,
arXiv:2304.07619.
Dakuan Lu, Hengkui Wu, Jiaqing Liang, Yipei Xu,
Qianyu He, Yipeng Geng, Mengkun Han, Yingsi Xin,
and Yanghua Xiao. 2023. Bbt-fin: Comprehensive
construction of chinese financial domain pre-trained
language model, corpus and benchmark.Preprint,
arXiv:2302.09432.
Jingwei Shi, Zeyu Zhang, Biao Wu, Yanjie Liang, Meng
Fang, Ling Chen, and Yang Zhao. 2025. Presenta-
gent: Multimodal agent for presentation video gen-
eration. InProceedings of the 2025 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing:
System Demonstrations, pages 760–773.
Noah Shinn, Federico Cassano, Edward Berman, Ash-
win Gopinath, Karthik Narasimhan, and Shunyu
Yao. 2023. Reflexion: Language agents with
verbal reinforcement learning.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2303.11366.
Saizhuo Wang, Hang Yuan, Lionel M. Ni, and Jian Guo.
2024. Quantagent: Seeking holy grail in trading
by self-improving large language model.Preprint,
arXiv:2402.03755.
Saizhuo Wang, Hang Yuan, Leon Zhou, Lionel M. Ni,
Heung-Yeung Shum, and Jian Guo. 2023. Alpha-gpt:
Human-ai interactive alpha mining for quantitative
investment.Preprint, arXiv:2308.00016.
Shijie Wu, Ozan Irsoy, Steven Lu, Vadim Dabravolski,
Mark Dredze, Sebastian Gehrmann, Prabhanjan Kam-
badur, David Rosenberg, and Gideon Mann. 2023.
Bloomberggpt: A large language model for finance.
Preprint, arXiv:2303.17564.
Yijia Xiao, Edward Sun, Di Luo, and Wei Wang. 2025.
Tradingagents: Multi-agents llm financial trading
framework.Preprint, arXiv:2412.20138.

[PAGE 10]
Qianqian Xie, Weiguang Han, Xiao Zhang, Yanzhao
Lai, Min Peng, Alejandro Lopez-Lira, and Jimin
Huang. 2023. Pixiu: A large language model, in-
struction data and evaluation benchmark for finance.
Preprint, arXiv:2306.05443.
Aiyuan Yang, Bin Xiao, Bingning Wang, Borong
Zhang, Ce Bian, Chao Yin, Chenxu Lv, Da Pan,
Dian Wang, Dong Yan, Fan Yang, Fei Deng, Feng
Wang, Feng Liu, Guangwei Ai, Guosheng Dong,
Haizhou Zhao, Hang Xu, Haoze Sun, and 36 oth-
ers. 2023a. Baichuan 2: Open large-scale language
models.Preprint, arXiv:2309.10305.
Hongyang Yang, Xiao-Yang Liu, and Christina Dan
Wang. 2023b. Fingpt: Open-source financial large
language models.Preprint, arXiv:2306.06031.
Yangyang Yu, Haohang Li, Zhi Chen, Yuechen Jiang,
Yang Li, Denghui Zhang, Rong Liu, Jordan W. Su-
chow, and Khaldoun Khashanah. 2023. Finmem:
A performance-enhanced llm trading agent with
layered memory and character design.Preprint,
arXiv:2311.13743.
Boyu Zhang, Hongyang Yang, and Xiao-Yang Liu.
2023a. Instruct-fingpt: Financial sentiment analy-
sis by instruction tuning of general-purpose large
language models.Preprint, arXiv:2306.12659.
Nonghai Zhang, Zeyu Zhang, Jiazi Wang, Yang Zhao,
and Hao Tang. 2025a. Vasevqa-3d: Benchmarking
3d vlms on ancient greek pottery.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2510.04479.
Ruicheng Zhang, Yu Sun, Zeyu Zhang, Jinai Li, Xiaofan
Liu, Hoi Fan Au, Haowei Guo, and Puxin Yan. 2025b.
Marl-mambacontour: Unleashing multi-agent deep
reinforcement learning for active contour optimiza-
tion in medical image segmentation. InProceedings
of the 33rd ACM International Conference on Multi-
media, pages 7815–7824.
Susan Zhang, Stephen Roller, Naman Goyal, Mikel
Artetxe, Moya Chen, Shuohui Chen, Christopher De-
wan, Mona Diab, Xian Li, Xi Victoria Lin, Todor Mi-
haylov, Myle Ott, Sam Shleifer, Kurt Shuster, Daniel
Simig, Punit Singh Koura, Anjali Sridhar, Tianlu
Wang, and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2022. Opt: Open
pre-trained transformer language models.Preprint,
arXiv:2205.01068.
Xuanyu Zhang, Qing Yang, and Dongliang Xu. 2023b.
Xuanyuan 2.0: A large chinese financial chat model
with hundreds of billions parameters.Preprint,
arXiv:2305.12002.

==================================================
